A person who appeals (appellant) has to submit four (4) copies of a Form Q for each year of assessment and must ensure that at least one (1) copy is an original Form Q whereas the other three (3) copies may be photocopied.

A Form Q and attachments (if any) submitted by the appellant must not be attached with other documents. A completed Form Q with the grounds of appeal must be submitted to the IRBM department/HASiL office handling the appellant's income tax file or which raised the relevant assessment. Form Q can be downloaded and printed from the following link:
Form Q for appeal under the Income Tax Act 1967
Form Q for appeal under the Real Property Gains Tax Act 1976
Form Q for appeal under the Petroleum (Income Tax) 1967
Appeal under section 109H of the Income Tax Act 1967 (for withholding tax cases)

A completed Form Q must contain the following information:
date and amount of tax payable (amount of tax payable refers to the notice of assessment in dispute);
detailed grounds of appeal containing other particulars as may be required by that form; AND
a Form Q must be signed by the appellant who is the person assessed and chargeable to tax.
in the case of companies and limited liability partnerships, Form Q must be signed by a person authorized under sections 75 and 75B of the ITA respectively.effective from the year of assessment 2019, if an estimated assessment is raised under subsection 90(3) of the ITA on a company, limited liability partnership, trust body or co-operative society due to failure to submit an Income Tax Return Form (ITRF), an appeal by way of a Form Q against that assessment must be submitted together with the relevant Income Tax Return Form (ITRF).

Lodgement of a Form Q via e-mail or electronic medium will NOT BE ACCEPTED.

A Form Q cannot be signed by a tax agent or a lawyer.

An incomplete Form Q shall be returned to the appellant.
For further clarification and information regarding on how to fill out the appeal notice (Form Q), kindly refer to Guide To Filling a Notice Of Appeal (Form Q).

For further clarification and information regarding the appeal procedure (Form Q), kindly refer to Public Ruling No.7/2020 (Appeal Against An Assessment And Application For Relief).