If an appeal has not been submitted within the specified period, an application for extension of time for appeal can be made by way of a Form N.

Effective from the year of assessment 2020, an application for extension of time to appeal (Form N) shall be submitted within seven (7) years after the expiration of the period to make an appeal under subsection 99(1) of the ITA.

The appellant must give strong reasons in the application for extension of time. One of the reasons which may be considered is circumstances beyond the control of the appellant, for example: the appellant has been hospitalised for a long period of time, absence from the country, victim of natural disaster or other acceptable and valid reasons.

Form N must be sent to the IRBM department/HASiL Office handling the appellant's income tax file. The appellant must submit two (2) copies of the Form N for each year of assessment whereby one (1) copy is an original Form N while the one (1) other copy may be photocopied. Form N can be downloaded and printed from the following link:
Form N for appeal under the Income Tax Act 1967
Form N for appeal under Real Property Gains Tax Act 1976
Form N for appeal under Petroleum (Income Tax) 1967
Form N for appeal under Income Tax Act 1967 (for withholding case)

If the application for extension of time is allowed, the IRBM will issue a Form CP15A informing the appellant the extended date for submission of Form Q, which is thirty (30) days from the date of CP15A.

If the application for extension of time is not allowed, the Form N together with a statement of the reasons for rejection by the DGIR (Form CP15B) will be forwarded to the SCIT. Once the Form N and the statement of the reasons are forwarded to the SCIT, the DGIR will inform the appellant in writing and will also furnish a copy of the statement of the reasons.

Within twenty (21) days of receiving the notification, the appellant may make a written representation or submission to the SCIT regarding his application and the statement of the reasons by the DGIR.

If the SCIT agrees to allow an extension of time, the SCIT will notify the appellant and state the date the Form Q has to be submitted.

If the application is rejected, the appellant will be notified by the SCIT and the appellant has no right to make a further appeal. The decision of the SCIT is final.

Lodgement of a Form N via e-mail or electronic medium will NOT BE ACCEPTED.
For further clarification and information regarding the late appeal procedure, kindly refer to Public Ruling No. 7/2020 - Appeal against an Assessment and Application for Relief.